To start with, Autism is a developmental disability, a syndrome of autistic disturbances first
described by Dr. Leo Kanner from the Jhon Hopkins hospital in 1943 (Rahman et al., 2016).
“Autism spectrum disorder (ASD) refers to a group of complex neurodevelopment disorders
characterized by repetitive and characteristic patterns of behavior and difficulties with social
communication and interaction” (Rahman et al., 2016, p.7). Mainly three deficits are noticeable
such as social interaction, communication, and repetitive or stereotypic behavior (CRI, 2014)
refer to social skill, behavioral problems, speech and non-verbal communication, that indicate
how you view the world and how you interact with other people (Akhter, 2021). Moreover, ASD
affects individuals differently and to varying degrees (CRI, 2014; Rahman et al., 2016).
According to the description of the University of Iowa, autistic children are probably delayed in
learning communicative behaviors and social interaction skills, share information with others,
sometimes they prefer to be isolated as they have their own world, and they are not conscious
about their surroundings. Furthermore, autistic children may behave aggressively, like biting,
screaming, hitting, kicking etc. if they are confused (Rahman et al., 2016). It is a lifelong
disability, the term “spectrum” refers to the wide range of symptoms, skills, and levels of
disability (Rahman et al., 2016, p.7) and symptoms mainly appear between 18 to 36 months of
age (Hasan, 2020).
By examining the global trend, it has been estimated that 1% of the world population suffered
from autism (Rahman et al., 2016). The global prevalence of autism has increased twentyfold to
thirtyfold since the earliest epidemiologic studies were conducted in the late 1960s and early
1970s (CRI, 2014). According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention’s Autism and
Developmental Disabilities Monitoring Network report, in 2014 approximately 1 in 68 children
in the United States has ASD, which is thirty percent higher than the previous data reported in
2012 (CRI, 2014).The latest prevalence studies of autism indicate that 1.1% of the population in
the UK may have autism which means over 695,000 people in the UK may have autism (CRI,
2014). The number of children with ASD is dramatically increasing all over the world, and in
this case, Bangladesh is not the exception. There is no exact statistical data of the number of
children with ASD in Bangladesh, as there is no national epidemiological study on autism in
Bangladesh. According to the Ministry of Social Welfare, nearly 1.4 million individuals may
have autism in Bangladesh (Rahman, et al., 2016).
Only 12 children with ASD attended the centre for Child Development and Autism at BSMMU
in 2001, which increased to 105 children in 2009 suggesting probable 10 prevalence. A study of
BSMMU showed that the prevalence of autism in Bangladesh is 8.5/ 1000 population. Though in
Bangladesh, no intensive or exact research has been carried out to understand the prevalence of
autism, however, it is assumed that about 3, 00,000 children are affected, with one case in every
94 boys and one in every 150 girls (Rahman, et al., 2016, p.10). However, a recent report of
BSMMU showed that almost 2 in 1000 children have been suffering from ASD in Bangladesh,
wherein the urban prevalence is higher than the rural areas (Hasan, 2020). In addition, the
number of trained professionals is low with other facilities. Most of the time, the children with
ASD are detected by a general pediatrician and sometimes misdiagnosed and sent to psychiatrists
(Rahman, et al., 2016). In addition, negative attitude to children with ASD is common in
Bangladesh, where autism is still considered a curse (Rahman, et al., 2016).
2.1.1 Brief of Government activities and other initiatives in Bangladesh
Bangladesh was among the first countries to ratify two most significant global treaties that
protect the rights of children with disabilities, one is the Convention on the Rights of the Child
(CRC), in 1990, and another one is the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities
(CRPD), in 2007 (UNICEF Bangladesh, 2014). The National Parliament of the Government of
Bangladesh has also taken a number of legislative and policy actions. As a result, two important
laws have been enacted, one is the Disability Right Law 2013 to protect dignity and rights to
education, physical and psychological improvement, participation, get the national identity card,
employment inherited property rights etc. and another one is the Neuro-Developmental
Disability Protection Trust Act, 2013, mainly to provide physical, psychological and economic
assistance, security and rehabilitation etc. (CRI, 2014). Though these acts are enacted to protect
the rights of persons with disabilities, there is a gap in the implementation and mechanism of
these acts in the practical field of Bangladesh to the improvement of person with disabilities as
well as ensure and protect their rights (Murshid & Haque, 2020). Besides, the Bangladesh
Government provides disability allowance or child disability grants to the children with disability
from the low-income family. This disability grant is managed by the Bangladesh Ministry of
Social Welfare (NSPS, 2014). In order to improve social protection and security, the Ministry of
Social Welfare gives stipends for students with disabilities from lower-income families. In this
program, the number of beneficiaries is 18,6201. It seems limited and not mentioned the criteria
of children with disabilities. Basically, social protection mechanisms taken by the Government
and some Non- Governmental Organizations (NGOs) to support parents and children are yet to
reach a large number of families and parents, still, there are many gaps with these initiatives as
well as challenges to get access to these services (UNICEF Bangladesh, 2014).
On the other hand, Saima Wazed Hossain, a school psychologist and global advocate for autism
who is also the daughter of the Prime Minister of Bangladesh, has been actively engaged in
global and domestic advocacy of mental health disabilities along with the autism (CRI, 2014).
Furthermore, the Bangladesh government has taken some initiatives to protect children with
autism, such as the Global Autism Public Health Bangladesh initiative that started in July 2011
with unanimous ratification of the Dhaka Declaration on Autism Spectrum Disorders. Moreover,
this initiative is working to address issues related to autism and other neuro-developmental
disabilities and to promote access to quality health services both regionally and globally
(UNICEF Bangladesh, 2014). Another major initiative is the establishment of Shishu Bikash
Kendra (Child Development Center) in government tertiary medical colleges for early
assessment, diagnosis and intervention for children identified with potential developmental
delays. These centers also offer training and support for parents of children with various
disabilities. The Child Development Centers are now located in ten government medical
hospitals with trained multidisciplinary teams, where three centers are located in capital city
Dhaka, and the rest seven are located outside Dhaka (UNICEF Bangladesh, 2014). However, the
situation analysis report of UNICEF (UNICEF Bangladesh, 2014) did not provide any
information about the practical scenario of these initiatives and how they work. Moreover, Soron
(2015) discussed some government initiatives for the children with autism such as, the Ministry
of Primary and Mass Education has developed a short episode of ‘Meena’ cartoon to raise
awareness of autism, staged a popular interactive theater in 158 sub-district level on autism, the
government initiated 73 Disability Service Centre in district and Upazila (sub district) level with
a special “Autism Corner”, besides autism incorporated in the education curriculum and children
with autism will get extra 20 minutes in the exam, a ‘One Stop Mobile Service’ program has
been implemented for the families who live in rural areas with lack of accessibility to medical
services. According to Soron (2015) this kind of government initiatives help to reduce the stigma
associated with autism and autistic child in Bangladesh. However, the author did not discuss the
function of these initiatives in the practical field or if these initiatives brought any difference for
the children with ASD or, any practical example of experiences of parents and child. Besides,
Akhter (2021) discussed that since 2010 Bangladesh Prime Minister and her daughter are trying
to create awareness regarding autism by taking various steps. However, still, achievements are
limited since knowledge is very inadequate, and there is still many misconceptions surrounding
its management, such as simple medicine will cure the child. Moreover, there is no alternative
training and research to deal with the gap (Akhter, 2021). Furthermore, Alam et al. (2020)
mentioned, there are lots of challenges regarding children with disabilities or autism in
Bangladesh, and the knowledge about their general condition is shamefully inadequate.
Parental experiences with their children with ASD
Parenting a child with a developmental disability influences a person emotionally, physically,
socially, financially and it is a mix of emotions and experiences altogether (Carroll, 2013).
According to Ackerman et al. (2005), a disabled child of any variety requires more intensive care
than any non-disabled child and being a parent of a child with any disability is often a full-time
occupation in Bangladesh along with the severe test to a family’s economic and psychological
stability. Interestingly, it is evident that there is no generalized set of parenting practices for
children with disabilities (Ackerman et al., 2005). When it comes to reviewing literature on
parenting children with autism, most of the literature in the context of Bangladesh is on disability
in general, with very little of it focused on autism (Alam et al., 2020). To understand parenting
experiences here, I review related and relevant literature according to the study topic and purpose
from the different parts of the world along with the Bangladesh context.
2.2.1 Parenting stress and different dynamics of challenges
The experience of parenting a child with a disability/ASD is undeniably stressful (Carroll, 2013;
Hayes & Watson, 2013; McStay et al., 2014; Enea & Rusu, 2020). Altiere and Kluge (2009)
found after discovering the reality that their child has autism, every parent experienced despair,
sadness, denial, confusion, and anger or feeling of loss. Moreover, the growing and
developmental process of an autistic child is very stressful and challenging for the parents
(Begum et al., 2020b). Hayes and Watson (2013) found that parents of children with ASD
experience more parenting stress than those who have typically developing children or children
with other disabilities. According to Smith, Oliver & Innocenti (2001), family, functioning
resources and the level of child disability are the two essential elements that are related to
parental stress. The severity of the child’s disability had a notable impact on stress related to the
parent-child relationship; basically, a child’s social skill is one of the predictors of parenting
stress. Algood et al. (2013) mentioned that much parental attention for disable child can increase
parental stressors, besides multiple factors such as socioeconomic status, family rules, rituals,
routines, lack of adequate insurance coverage, and inaccessible community resources
compromise the quality of parenting and increase stress.
Pisula (2011) figured out the main reasons for parental stress, where the first reason is children’s
behavioral symptoms and problems. Second is lack of professional support and limited access to
necessary services and the unsatisfactory relationship between parents and professionals, and
finally, negative social attitude and lack of understanding about the problems of child and their
families. Parental stress is also related to the child’s regulatory difficulties. These problems
affect a number of areas, including emotional and affective regulation as well as circadian
rhythm, some children with developmental disabilities have irregular sleeping problems causes’
parental stress, fatigue and other physical disorders (Pisula, 2011; Hoffman Sweeney & Lopez-
Wagner, 2008). Pisula (2011) also mentioned that not only the lack of knowledge of
professionals and the inadequate services and support but also this kind of limitation impacts the
relationship between parents and professionals pose extra burden of stress to parents. Severe
stress experienced by parents of children with ASD has profound consequences for their
interactions with the child and family life (Pisula, 2011). Shepherd et al. (2020) discussed that
parenting stress could be classified as either objective stress (financial difficulties that lead to the
degradation of physical health) or subjective stress (parents’ emotional response, negative
perception about their parenting abilities that manifest other feelings of inadequacy).
Regarding social perception and parental stress Green et al. (2016) mentioned not only child,
parents are also disabled by cultural narratives that devalues their children’s life and their
parenting. Furthermore, Parents who have children with autism face huge social stigma
(Woodgate et al., 2008; Gray, 2002). According to Soron (2015), parents of children with autism
or any other mental illness face social discrimination and stigma in Bangladesh. Even
government has a negative and stigmatized view of burden and no use in investing in this sector.
These kinds of negative social views contribute to increasing parental stress, moreover, parental
increased stress lessens the father-child relations and interactions and father’s feelings of
responsibilities instead raise substance abuse among fathers (Soron, 2015).
Moreover, parents need to protect their children with disabilities from society's hostile attitude in
Bangladesh (Ackerman et al., 2005; Rahman et al., 2016). According to Ackerman et al. (2005),
in the context of Bangladesh, parents who have children with any kind of disability have to face
challenges in economic, social and educational dimensions. The authors also mentioned,
rejection from education systems is visible because; from the common perception in Bangladesh
children with disability are not welcomed to the education systems. They are treated as hopeless

to teach and reason of harm to other students, which is also can be seen as common parental
perception in many cases, where parents also think this child cannot learn (Ackerman et al.,
2005). In fact, the child could learn and perform if appropriate training, support, and materials
were available for them (Ackerman et al., 2005). Moreover, when parents come to know the
disability of their child, their first thought is “What have I done to deserve this?” but eventually,
they accept the child’s problems and try to help (Ackerman et al., 2005, p .53). In addition,
sometimes cultural values may influence the attitude of a family toward a child’s disability, the
family may choose the child with a disability as a family secret and hesitate to report
requirements and support (Acar et al., 2021).
Again, social perceptions in developing countries like Bangladesh; girls are subordinated to boys
in almost every sphere of their lives (Jowel, 2014). As a result, girls children with disabilities are
at more risk and often victims of physical, emotional and sexual abuse in Bangladesh even
sometimes parents perpetuate this kind of abuse (Ackerman et al., 2005). Basically, the gender of
the child can be seen as a critical factor in the context of Bangladesh since girls with disabilities
are less likely than boys to receive food and care (UNICEF Bangladesh, 2014). In addition, the
gender of the child causes parental stress and worries for both mother and father. Similar to
mothers, fathers of daughters with ASD reported higher levels of stress and worries than fathers
of sons (Rivard et al., 2014).
Moreover, another challenge is that parents of children with autism live in a world of isolation
due to their child’s disruptive and anti-social behavior and the social stigma (Woodgate et al.,
2008 – research in a Canadian context). Woodgate et al. (2008) described it as a “being in their
own world” for the parents, and the reason for the isolation of parents is lack of familial (include
extended family member and relative) and social understanding about the challenging nature of
autism of their children as well as their parental suffering. Common social perception is to give
less value to the children. Again due to the intensive care of the children, parents feel a missing
usual way of life. In addition, parents have to face challenges to access different systems due to a
lack of training and knowledge of professionals (ibid).
Besides, severe stress experienced by parents of children with ASD has profound consequences
for their health and well-being (Pisula, 2011). Parents of children with disabilities have to face a
high level of depression and other health problems with shocks denial, self-blame, guilt or
confusion (Heiman, 2002). Benjak et al. (2011) found in Croatia that parents of ASD had poorer
health and quality of life because parents are only in the focus of support for the needs of the
child with ASD, not for parents’ need or suffering. Therefore, Benjak et al. (2011) emphasized to
include close monitoring of parents’ health and well-being for treating children with ASD
properly in the system, which is enormously neglected and the main reason for parental
challenges of poorer health and quality of life. According to Mumbardó-Adam, Barnet-López
and Balboni (2021), due to the unique characteristics of parenting children with ASD, parents
have to face higher levels of parental stress and lower levels of family quality of life.
2.2.2 Gender role in parenting
Mother commonly plays the primary parental role by tradition and unspoken law in Bangladesh
where siblings play the role of second caregiver. Often mothers need to leave their job for their
parental role for the child with a disability (Ackerman et al., 2005). Similarly, Green et al. (2016)
explained that mother of a child with a disability has powerful gender expectations from a
society where it is counted normal for a mother to sacrifice other aspects of life in order to
provide proper care for their child with a disability. Acar et al. (2021) discussed through a
systematic review of literature how culture may affect parental involvement in the context of
Mainland China, Taiwan, and Turkey. Across all three cultures mother plays the role of primary
caregiver for their children with developmental disabilities, and mothers are expected from their
culture to play this role. Moreover, mothers are involved in diagnosis and services for their
children with developmental disabilities and the role of communication with professionals.
Rudelli et al. (2021) presented the father’s role in the development or education of their children
with ASD. They described father’s satisfaction, self-efficacy, care giving burden from the
perception of the father in the context of Italy, where fathers’ role is not monolithic rather, their
experiences are complex. In their study findings, fathers expressed their positive feelings and
satisfaction with their parental role. Father enjoys spending time with their children, and they do
their best care of the child as well as consider themselves successful seeing improvements in
their child situation. Moreover, the authors show, fathers are capable of managing their behavior
when it is necessary. A father, who is aware of his role and gets actively involved in the day-today
parenting activities (meals, washing, play, etc.), is likely to be more active in decisionmaking
and discussions concerning the upbringing of his child. Father who is satisfied with the
social support is less prone to feel overburden in their parenting (Rudelli et al., 2021).
Parental stress is viewed as a complex set of non-specific, persistent and significant challenges
associated with the most essential roles of a parent. Since mothers take most of the care of their
child, hence mothers are under huge stress with their children with developmental disabilities
(Pisula, 2011). Different research showed fathers also face significant challenges due to their
child with autism; however, the knowledge is still limited about how they experience their
problems. From some studies, it was found that fathers of children with autism faces more stress
than the father of typically developing children (Baker-Ericzén et al., 2005, cited in Pisula,
2011).
Furthermore, co-parenting came as beneficial in the work of Downes and Cappe (2021).
According to Downes and Cappe (2021), to mitigate the challenges of raising a child with ASD,
parents must understand their roles and responsibilities where co-parenting is beneficial for both
parents and child outcome. They mentioned co-parenting relationship works as a central process
of family functioning with multiple influences on parents and children. Through analyzing nine
different studies Downes and Cappe (2021) mentioned, though mothers require to play the main
role of parenting but supportive co-parenting is beneficial to less the parenting stress and a better
sense of parental efficacy.
2.2.3 Understanding support network
According to Shepherd et al. (2020) parents seek out social support to cope up with the
challenges and stress with their raising child with ASD. In this context, support is divided into
two sources one is informal support consisting of friends, family and other elements within
social networks, dominant providers of emotional support. Another one is that formal support
comes from organization and Government primarily assists through the provision of financial,
informational or tangible support. The important thing is to understand the operationalisation of
social support, and it’s relationships in the autistic children parenting context where social
supports work as protective measures.
Islam (2020) demonstrates through his study in the context of Bangladesh that parents with
intellectual disability have less social network (smaller number of close friends and relatives for
sharing problems, seeking help or consulting while making an important decision) than the
parents with a child without disabilities. And in this case, multiple factors work, such as the
number of friends and relatives and how many of them live close to support. Numerous extent of
the social network works as a source of social support and influences parenting performance,
coping capacities and relational adjustments, which means social support derives from social
network can be instrumental, informational and emotional (Islam, 2020). He also mentioned
that there is the relationship between social support and ecological context, but very few
researches have addressed the issue from the context of Bangladesh. Parents of a child with a
disability are lonely and less satisfied with their social support and network (Islam, 2020).
According to Putnam (2020), physical health problems, depression and other mental health
problems can be visible risk factors for a person with a limited social network. Social support
gives relief of stress and burden in parenting (Rudelli et al., 2021). Social support is a protective
factor for the adaptation of the parents with a child with autism. Informal support (from family,
friends, and relatives) is a more critical source of social support that provides invaluable
emotional and instrumental help (Pozo, Sarriá & Brioso, 2011).
2.2.4 Parental positive point of view, success and support
To understand parenting success with their children with a disability, it is important to
understand ecological systems and their influence in parenting. Mainly successes occur when
proper supports are in place at the micro-, meso-, and macro-levels and these supports are
culturally sensitive to the needs of the child, family and parents (Algood et al., 2013). Altiere and
Kluge (2009), in the context of Michigan, demonstrated, despite struggles, some parents
described their parental experiences positively where parents take it as positive learning
experiences, way to personal improvement (patience, compassion, and acceptance), friendships
strengthening of the family, and love of their child. From their findings, Altiere and Kluge
(2009) elicited- with their positive mindset half of the couples noticed an increase in compassion
and empathy towards each other. For these parents, parenting a child with autism worked as a
transition that changes their life views positively. It also helps to get social support and to know
true friends. They found new friends through the support group. Some parents get support from
extended family networks. Besides parents experienced hope and joy with their child through
their positive acceptance and child’s improvement.
2.2.5 Parents’ ‘social level’ and their experiences
Parental financial position impacts their parenting with their children with disabilities. Parents in
poverty are unable to provide the environment for growth and development and necessary
assistive device (UNICEF Bangladesh, 2014). The economic cost of raising children with any
kind of disability is one of the main considerable parenting issues and reasons for vulnerability
for both parents and children in the context of Bangladesh (UNICEF Bangladesh, 2014). Extra
monetary investment is needed to raise a child with a disability (Islam, 2020). Besides, the
parents are strong advocates for ensuring their child’s need and protect rights, but in this case,
parental socio-economic level and education is vital to realize their situation and advocate for
their children (UNICEF Bangladesh, 2014). Knestrict and Kuchey (2009) mentioned, familial
and socio-economic status is important to get access services for the child with disabilities, if one
is struggling with basic needs cannot be reflective about their child with a disability.
Azad et al. (2014) examined mothers’ parenting behaviors and investigated the relationship
between parenting behaviors and socio-economic conditions (education, income, status).
Through their study, authors mentioned, parental socio-economic context and education level
have a direct or indirect impact on their parenting, mothers who reported more education as well
as who reported more family income had a significantly higher level of positive parenting.
Authors also mentioned mothers with more education are better able to understand the depth of
factors related to their child development. As a result, positive parenting practices in early
childhood. In addition, higher family income means more access to resources (e.g., opportunities
to attend classes, read on the topic, and hire a babysitter).
Mainly, the lack of education of parents is a challenge as higher educated parents give more
support to help their child with autism in their special needs (Begum et al., 2020b). Moreover,
Ackerman et al. (2005) discussed that due to lack of knowledge about their child’s disability,
sometimes parents do not understand what to do and how to deal; however, if parents are given a
chance for knowledge or education, they will become energized and active. Therefore, they are a
receptive population for educational and medical intervention. The world health organization has
given priority to parental education in autism because such parental education (PE) can increase
parental understanding; improve quality of life, efficacy and copying; as well as reduce anxiety
and stress. However, access to this kind of education is still limited and unavailable in many
regions of the world (Stošić, Frey Škrinjar & Preece, 2020).
2.2.6 Regarding Covid 19 pandemic
According to Mumbardó-Adam et al. (2021) the Corona-virus pandemic affects the lives of
children with ASD. They mentioned during the new social situation of the pandemic, children
and adolescents with ASD benefited from more time spent with their parents due to quarantine.
As a result, children were more communicative, learning some new skills and participating in the
family routine. Parents are also benefited from this extra time as they spend more time with their
children to help them to teach new skills related to their autonomy and communicative
interactions. Moreover, parents appreciated online school and psychological support and
maintained online contact with relatives during quarantine.
2.2.7 Understanding coping strategies
Woodgate et al. (2008) present the parental perception of sustaining and coping through their
research. The authors mentioned that a strong sense of self and family would enhance protective
measures for the child with autism. Therefore, parents found it important to work towards a
healthy balance to obtain well-being for themselves, child and their family with the recognition
that their meaning of life is not only to focus on helping their child development, rather to create
a balance between their focus on parenting and other aspects of life. Parents also mentioned
cherishing different milestones of their child helps to preserve parent’s sense of hope and in
sustaining the self and family. Besides, parents need to learn to let it go when the situation is not
possible to change. Furthermore, learning from other useful sources and other parents who have
similar experiences is helpful. Again parents have to fight for their voice to be heard; thus, it is
vital to educate others to respect children with autism and their parents.
Begum et al. (2020b) pointed out that parental education has an impact on coping strategies in
raising a child with autism in the context of Bangladesh and the authors analyzed their data and
findings through eight groups of coping strategies, such as: confrontive coping, distancing from a
problem, seeking social support, self-controlling, accepting responsibility, planful problemsolving,
escape-avoidance, and Positive reappraisal. The authors discussed that person with
higher education has greater executive ability to manage their problems. They found education
has an impact on coping strategies with accepting responsibilities through taking the situation
with a positive attitude. In Bangladesh, there is still lake of opportunities for seeking professional
help for their children with autism, in this case, parental acceptance of the situation through selfcontrolling
strengthen their mental ability to support and manage their child. Mainly, parents of
autistic children need more social support and education to cope up with the situation and
manage their children (Begum et al., 2020b).
In research on families of children with ASD, four factors have been shown to be significantly
involved in the adaptation of parents: a) characteristics of the child with ASD – namely, the
severity of disorders and behavior problems; b) social support; c) perception of problems; and d)
coping strategies (Pozo et al., 2011, p.108).The severity of disorders of the child influences the
parental stress and the adaptation strategy of parents (Herring et al., 2006; Lecavalier et al.,
2006; Tomanik et al., 2004, cited in Pozo et al., 2011). Another thing is social support from
family, community, school or other organization that can alleviate the parental stress, improve
coping strategies and develop a parental response to child’s needs (Bristol, 1984; Dyson, 1997;
Sharpley et al., 1997 and Dust et al., 1986, cited in Pozo et al., 2011). In addition, parental
positive perception and aspects help them adapt to their situations (Pozo et al., 2011). Usually,
parents take different strategies to cope with their parental stress (ibid). Grant and Whittell
(2000) found that problem-solving strategy is more effective when particular problem is possible
to change for the better. If problem-solving strategy does not work in particular situation then
cognitive strategy through managing the situation is effective. However, the circumstance can
arise when neither problem solving nor cognitive strategy work. As a result, parents need to deal
with the consequences of the challenges to cope (Grant & Whittell, 2000).
Resilience is very important to understand coping strategies, adjustment with a particular
situation, self-esteem, various aspect of social life, along with social support (Dumont and
Provost, 1999). Heiman (2002) found three main factors that enable parents to function in a
resilient way, such as open discussion and consultation with family, friends, and professionals,
positive bond between parents which supports and strengthens each other, finally, continuous
and intensive educational, therapeutic, and psychological support for family members. On the
other hand, stable socio economic status is essential to focus child with a disability and establish
meaningful rules, rituals and routines for resilience (Knestrict & Kuchey, 2009).
2.3 Chapter summary
This chapter discussed relevant literature related to the study topic and purpose in the context of
Bangladesh and international to understand previous knowledge and research on parenting
experience with their autistic children. The literature review started from understanding the
autism and the brief overview in the context of Bangladesh then discussed other literature
relating to dynamics of parental experiences
